Add CONTRIBUTING.md with guidelines for joining stolostron org and su… (#162)
stolostron/multicluster-mesh-addon: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to Multicluster Mesh Add-on

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the OCM Service Mesh Add-on! This document provides guidelines for contributing to this project.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Joining the Stolostron Organization](#joining-the-stolostron-organization)
- [Pull Request Guidelines](#pull-request-guidelines)
- [Developer Certificate of Origin](#developer-certificate-of-origin)

> 

Reviewer: nit: Missing entries for "Development Workflow" and "License":

```suggestion
- [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)
- [License](#license)

```

## Getting Started

Before contributing, please:

1. Review the [design documentation](docs/design.md) to understand the architecture

> 2. Read the [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) file for project-specific patterns and conventions

Reviewer: AGENTS.md contains AI agent instructions (coding standards for Claude/AI tools), not general contributor documentation. A new contributor following this link would find AI-specific rules rather than human development guidelines.

Consider pointing to the project README instead, or removing this reference.

Author: Fixed

## Joining the Stolostron Organization

> Contact existing maintainers (listed in the [OWNERS](OWNERS) file)

Reviewer: How will existing maintainers help here?

Author: The workflow includes internal RH slack channel so I'm not sure if we want to put it here.

Reviewer: IDK since this is "mid-stream" so it's not like it's fully independent (esp the org).
Maybe instruct to contact the org members? We can't do anything about it anyway..

Author: We can redirect them to correct internal slack channel

Reviewer: If all we do is redirect then better direct them to the correct place to begin with no?
Or we could just list `#open-cluster-mgmt` on the k8s slack here?

Real solution is probably for stolostron to have a more automated system to add members (like istio) but IDK if its even planned..

Author: I added link to stolostron org owners

## Pull Request Guidelines

### PR Requirements

> - **Approval**: Pull requests require approval from a repository owner (see [OWNERS](OWNERS))

Reviewer: nit: The OWNERS file uses Prow terminology ("approvers" and "reviewers"), not "repository owner." More precise:

```suggestion
- **Approval**: Pull requests require approval from an approver (see [OWNERS](OWNERS))
```

Same on L34: "Approvers will respond..."

> - **DCO Sign-off**: All commits must be signed off (`git commit -s`)

Reviewer: Also the GPG signing?
It's enabled in the repo I know we don't gate on it but at least we should recommend it?

- **Tests**: Include unit tests for new functionality
- **Documentation**: Update docs if changing user-facing behavior

### Review Process

> - Repository owners will respond to submission requests promptly

Reviewer: submission requests?
Perhaps Pull Requests & Issues?

Author: Fixed

> - Address review feedback by pushing new commits (don't force-push during review)

Reviewer: Should also mention to use merge commits in case there are conflicts

Author: Do you mean to always create a merge commit when merging to target branch in case of conflict? e.g. via `tide/merge-method-merge`

Reviewer: No I mean if a contributor created a PR and it got reviewed then a "merge commit" will ensure original comment threads still point to code in the repo, while a force push would override.
This already instructs not to force push, but isn't clear about what's expected in case of conflicts..

Author: I will add one more line saying, `try to avoid force pushes if possible`. It's not always possible, e.g. if you forget to sign off the commit or if you accept the suggestion, the commit is also not signed off

- `okay to merge` label is required for a PR to be merged. This allows for better control in cases where multiple reviews are needed.

## Developer Certificate of Origin

> All contributions must be submitted under the **Apache License, Version 2.0** terms.

Reviewer: Doesn't this just repeat the License section?

Author: Removed

You must sign off your commits to certify that you have the right to submit the code under the project's license. This is done using the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO).

> ## Development Workflow

Reviewer: nit: Missing blank line before this heading. Every other heading in the file is preceded by a blank line.

1. **Fork the repository** to your GitHub account
2. **Clone your fork** locally
3. **Create a branch** for your changes
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/my-feature
   ```
4. **Make your changes** following project conventions
5. **Run verification and tests**
   ```bash

>    make verify && make test && make test-integration

Reviewer: Should also instruct to run e2e or at least suggest it?

Author: Added

# Contributing to Multicluster Mesh Add-on

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the OCM Service Mesh Add-on! This document provides guidelines for contributing to this project.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Joining the Stolostron Organization](#joining-the-stolostron-organization)
- [Pull Request Guidelines](#pull-request-guidelines)
- [Developer Certificate of Origin](#developer-certificate-of-origin)
- [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)
- [License](#license)

## Getting Started

Before contributing, please:

1. Review the [design documentation](docs/design.md) to understand the architecture
2. Read the [README.md](README.md) file for general project information.

## Joining the Stolostron Organization

> Contact org [owners](https://github.com/orgs/stolostron/people?query=role%3Aowner)

Reviewer: The link works, thanks.
The section is a bit bare though, a new contributor would not know why they need to join or what it gets them.

Maybe something like:

```suggestion
To have CI run automatically on your pull requests, you need to be a member of the stolostron GitHub organization.

Contact the org [owners](https://github.com/orgs/stolostron/people?query=role%3Aowner) to request access.
```

## Pull Request Guidelines

### PR Requirements

- **Approval**: Pull requests require approval from an approver (see [OWNERS](OWNERS))
- **DCO Sign-off**: All commits must be signed off (`git commit -s`)
- **GPG Signing**: It's recommended to sign your commits (`git commit --gpg-sign`)
- **Tests**: Include unit tests for new functionality
- **Documentation**: Update docs if changing user-facing behavior

### Review Process

- Approvers will respond to pull requests promptly
- Address review feedback by pushing new commits (don't force-push during review)

> - don't force-push during review at all if possible

Reviewer: nit: Lines 38 and 39 say the same thing. 
Consider consolidating into one clear bullet:

```suggestion
- Address review feedback by pushing new commits
- Avoid force-pushing during review if possible. Use merge commits to resolve conflicts.
```

- `okay to merge` label is required for a PR to be merged. This allows for better control in cases where multiple reviews are needed.

## Developer Certificate of Origin

> You must sign off your commits to certify that you have the right to submit the code under the project's license. This is done using the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO).

Reviewer: nit: Link to the actual DCO so contributors know what they are certifying:

```suggestion
You must sign off your commits to certify that you have the right to submit the code under the project's license. This is done using the [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](https://developercertificate.org/).
```
